Munich 1856: four maps that change your view of the city
An insane institution where young people are supposed to meet today.
A Gruftkapelle, where the S-Bahn tunnel is now being dug.
Small gardeners manage the former land of farmers.
The oldest official map of Munich reveals exciting stories.
It is annoying when maps are not up to date.
Everyone knows this, because the car navigation system showed a green meadow instead of a bypass.
The historical maps of the digital Bayern-Atlas, an offer of the Geoportals Bayern of the state government, are anything but current - but for this very reason very revealing.
Especially if you compare them with current online maps.
Then it becomes clear how cities and municipalities in the distribution area of Munich Mercury have changed since the 19th century.
The digital Bayern-Atlas is a patchwork that is not immediately recognizable as such.
More detailed maps, so-called primordial maps, have been incorporated into the large overview map for cities and municipalities.
According to the Bayerische Vermessungsverwaltung (Bayerische Vermessungsverwaltung), these were created between 1810 and 1864 and were the result of Bavaria's first survey.
Her client: Napoleon.
The French army leader occupied Bavaria since the spring of 1800 during the Second Coalition War with Austria.
Napoleon wanted an overview of the occupied country and commissioned a topographic recording of Bavaria - for military purposes, of course.
Even though the French troops finally departed with the peace of Lunéville on February 9, 1801, it was the present neighbours who created the idea of a nationwide map of Bavaria.
Elector Max IV. Joseph continued to drive the project forward, founding the "topographic Bureau" - and with it the Bayerische Vermessungsverwaltung.
The original manuscript for Munich dates back to 1856 and, like all others, can be found on the website of the Bayerische Landesbibliothek.
The comparison between past and present is most impressive, using the example of the state capital.
The city has expanded in all directions and has grown together.
An example of this is Untersendling, which appears relatively isolated in the map of 1856.
Sendling was incorporated as a district of Munich 21 years after the map was drawn up, i.e. in 1877.
Today, Untersendling is in the middle of the city.
The houses of Untersendling are concentrated around 1856 along what is now Plinganserstrasse, which was only named in 1878 after Georg Sebastian Plinganser, a leader of the uprising of the Bavarian peasants against Austria in 1705.
Where the Westpark is today, you can see nothing but fields - at first glance: when zooming in, a smaller map with dozens of lines and numbers appears: handwritten numbered flurries from the so-called "original photograph," from which the property tax was derived.
Small plots no longer occupy farmers there - but small gardeners of the "land in sun" plant.
A large green area is emerging north of Untersendling.
The Theresienwiese, the site of the Oktoberfest since 1810, was in fact still a meadow in the 19th century - and not a concrete desert.
On the other side of the Isar, the historical map gives an insight into the history of psychiatric medicine.
In the original position sheet, in the area of today's Au-Haidhausen district, one reads not only the street name "am Gasteig" or from the hill "auf der Lüften" - but also in large letters "erren Anstalt."
Yes, people with delusions were once locked up here on Auerfeldstrasse.
The Munich Kreis-Irrenanstalt "auf der Auer Lüften" was founded there in 1858/59.
From 1872, Dr. Bernhard von Gudden was in charge of the institution - the psychiatrist brought in connection with the death of King Ludwig II.
"He was progressive for his time and ended, for example, the chaining of the so-called irons.
He also prohibited the staff from using violence against the inmates, "says Hermann Wilhelm, head of the Haidhausen Museum, who has been working with the institution for an exhibition.
At first there was room for 280 patients, later it was expanded to 500 places.
At some point, this capacity was no longer sufficient - the reason for the construction of the Kreisirrenanstalt in Haar in 1905.
Since 2006, the Isar-Amper-Klinikum München-Ost, one of the largest psychiatrists in Germany, has been located there.
Young people are now meeting in Munich's Salesianum on the site of the former Auer Anstalt.
The Order acquired the building complex in 1920 and converted it into a youth home with training facilities.
To the west lies the football pitch of the TSV München Ost, to the east residential buildings from the 1980s.
In 2015, the children's house "Casa Don Bosco" was built - in architectural reference to the original building of the Irrenanstalt, which was destroyed in bombing raids during the Second World War.
The Marienplatz was listed as "Haupt Platz" around 1856, the Kaufingerstrasse was called "Kaufinger Gasse."
The Second World War also brought a decisive change in the heart of Munich.
The Allied bombs tore many holes in the city centre in December 1944.
A big one remained to this day - at the Marienhof.
The English Institute, small shops and a chapel from the Middle Ages once stood at the Marienhof, where preparatory work is being carried out these days and the ground-breaking ceremony for the second regular S-Bahn line will take place on 5 April 2017.
With the slider, the old Munich map can be compared to the aerial view of today - and the hole at the Marienhof can be filled up.
Civil rights group issues travel warning for Missouri
The National Association for the Promotion of Farms has issued a warning for people of color who travel to Missouri because of the state's discriminatory policies and racist attacks.
"The NAACP Travel Advisory for the State of Missouri, which is scheduled to take effect until August 28, 2017, calls on African-American travelers, visitors and Missourians to pay special attention and exercise extreme caution when traveling through the state, as a number of questionable, race-based incidents have recently occurred throughout the state and are noted here," the group's statement read.
A recent Missouri law that makes it harder for people to win discrimination lawsuits, as well as the state's law enforcement agencies that disproportionately target minorities, prompted the group to issue the travel warning, the NAACP said.
"They have civil rights violations that happen to people.
They are stopped because of their skin color, they are beaten up or killed, "the president of the Missouri NAACP, Rod Chapel, told the Kansas City Star.
'We're hearing complaints at such frequency that we haven't heard before. '
It is the first such warning issued by the Organization for a State in the United States.
The group cited incidents such as racist offences against black students at the University of Missouri and the death of Tory Sanders, 28, a black man from Tennessee.
Sanders died in questionable circumstances earlier this year after running out of gasoline while traveling through the state and being taken into custody by Missouri police without being charged with a crime.
The council also points to a recent report by the Missouri Attorney General's Office showing that black motorists in the state are 75 percent more likely to be stopped than whites.
"The recommendation is that people be aware and inform their families, friends and co-workers about what might happen in Missouri," chapel said.
"People have to be ready, whether they bring deposit money or let relatives know that they are going through the state."
Missouri recorded 100 hate crimes in 2015, according to the latest figures from the FBI's hate crime reporting program, which ranks the state 16th in the country in terms of the number of such violations.
The travel warning is also a response to a new Missouri law that would make it harder to sue a company for housing or employment discrimination.
Earlier, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) issued travel warnings for Texas and Arizona after states passed immigration laws requiring local law enforcement to arrest people for immigration violations, which the ACLU says will help further racial profiling.
Travel alerts are usually issued by the State Department for other countries, but lately interest groups have used the measure in response to certain laws and trends within the U.S.
Electric fence project is basic
The Fischerbacher Weidezaun-Project is a success and will be continued in the coming year.
The CDU members Peter Weiß and Kordula Kovac got a picture on the spot.
At the Richtgrabenhof of the Schwendemann family, representatives of the Fischerbacher CDU local association met with Mayor Thomas Schneider and the two deputies.
Markus Schwendemann initially provided insights into his farm, where he farms 55 hectares of meadows and 40 hectares of forest, supplies 40 dairy cows and just as many young animals, and hosts holiday guests in five apartments.
For him, "Schwarzwaldmilch" is the alternative marketing route for the milk of his cows, says Schwendemann.
Only regional dishes are on the table of holiday guests.
Since he is also BLHV chairman of Fischerbach, he described the electric fence project as "fundamentally important."
I cannot make a profit on such steep areas.
The grassland area provides a lot of work, a lot of work has to be done with the engine sense.
"We are struggling here with the conditions and with the topography," Schwendemann stressed.
In 2003, he took over the parental business and managed it without chemical plant protection and fertilizer, even if he did not run a biofarm.
For Mayor Thomas Schneider, it was clear: "the municipality has recognised the importance of the electric fence project and is pleased with the Leader funding."
Farmers would have to be supported at a cost of between EUR 3 000 and EUR 4 000 per hectare.
It is hoped that the afforestation of the land could be dragged out for quite some time.
"The greatest treasure we have is the people who work in agriculture and are thinking about how to continue their business," said the mayor.
Farmers are often criticised for their support
In 2013, a total of 25 plots of eleven participants were fenced off via the fence promotion.
The open area thus amounts to 40 hectares, which may not be reforested until at least 2023.
Of the total cost of 71 500 euros, half was supported by Leader, and a quarter was contributed by the municipality of Fischerbach.
As a result, the farmers were left with 12 610 euros, which they had to invest in 16.2 kilometres of grazing fence.
"The big advantage is the longevity of the fences," explained Schwendemann.
Kordula Kovac stressed: "you are doing a really good job, without farmers and rural women it is not possible."
For Peter Weiß, too, it was clear: "this is where the best food is produced."
The Land Management Directive (LPR) Baden-Wuerttemberg makes it possible for the state to support fences.
The aim is to keep the Black Forest open.
A prerequisite is the existence of a funding framework defined by the LPR.
In addition, the area to be fenced must not be traceable (slope gradient above 35 percent) and must therefore be threatened by afforestation.
The proposal for the Fischerbacher Weidezaunprojekt 2018 is currently being submitted by eight participants with 24 plots, who want to build almost 16 kilometres of fence.
The disclosure area corresponds to 35 hectares, the calculated costs are more than 112 000 euros.
Is nothing sacred anymore?
Now the Trump White House is taking down the Statue of Liberty
The surest sign of regime change is when they begin to attack the statues.
Americans value them as much as anyone else - hence the carefully orchestrated overthrow of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad's Firdos Square in 2003.
