Munich 1856: Four maps that will change your view of the city
A mental asylum, where today young people are said to meet.
A crypt chapel, where they are now digging tunnels for the S-Bahn.
Allotment holders cultivate the soil of former farmers.
The oldest official map of Munich brings captivating stories to light.
It is annoying when geographical maps are not up-to-date.
Anyone who has ever got worked up because the car's sat-nav is showing a green field instead of a bypass knows that.
The historical maps of the digital BayernAtlas, an offering from the State Government's Geoportal Bayern, are anything but up-to-date – and yet it is precisely for this reason that they are so informative.
Especially when one compares them with current online maps.
Then it becomes clear how the towns and municipalities in the distribution area of Munich's Merkur newspaper have changed since the 19th century.
The digital BayernAtlas is a patchwork quilt that one doesn't quite recognise for what it is at first.
Within the large overview map, were worked in detailed maps for towns and municipalities, so-called original-lay-of-the-land sheets.
According to information from the Bavarian Surveying and Mapping Authority, these came into being between 1810 and 1864 and arise out of the first survey of Bavaria.
Their commissioner: Napoleon.
The French army commander had occupied Bavaria since the spring in 1800, during the War of the Second Coalition with Austria.
Napoleon wanted to gain an overview of the occupied land and commissioned a topographical survey – naturally for military purposes.
Even if the French troops finally retreated with the Treaty of Lunéville from 9th February 1801: it was the current neighbours who had the idea to create a comprehensive map of Bavaria.
Elector Max IV. Joseph propelled the project further forward, founding the "Topographical Bureau" – and with that, the Bavarian Surveying and Mapping Authority.
The original lay-of-the-land sheet for Munich originates from 1856 and, like all the others, can be found on the website of the Bavarian State Library.
The comparison of past/present is most impressive taking the example of the state capital.
The city has stretched out in all directions and coalesced.
An example of this is Untersendling, which still appears relatively isolated on the map from 1856.
Sendling was incorporated as an urban district of Munich 21 years after the map was created.
Today, Untersendling lies in the middle of the city.
Around 1856, Untersendling's houses are concentrated along what is today Plinganserstraße, which was first named in 1878 after Georg Sebastian Plinganser, a ringleader of the Bavarian farmers' revolt against Austria in 1705.
Where the West Park is today, one sees nothing but field – at first sight: upon zooming in, a more detailed small-scale map with dozens of lines and numbers appears: hand-numbered plots from the so-called "original record", from which the property tax was derived.
Today, it is no longer farmers who occupy small parcels there – rather, it is allotment holders of the "Land in Sonne" facility.
A large green area is apparent to the north of Untersendling.
Theresienwiese, since 1810 the scene of Oktoberfest, was in the 19th century still actually a "Wiese" – a meadow – and not a concrete wasteland.
On the other side of the Isar, the historical map gives an insight into the history of psychiatric medicine.
In the original lay-of-the-land sheet, in the area where today the borough of Au-Haidhausen is, one can make out not only the street name "am Gasteig" or the elevation "Auf der Lüften" – but can actually read in large letters "mental asylum".
Yes, here on Auerfeldstraße, they once imprisoned people with delusions.
The Munich district mental asylum "Auf der Auer Lüften" had come to life there in 1858/59.
From 1872, Dr. Bernhard von Gudden led the institution – the psychiatrist who is associated with the death of King Ludwig II.
"He was progressive for his time and ended, for example, the practice of chaining up the so-called mad men.
What is more, he forbade the staff from using violence against the inmates," says Hermann Wilhelm, leader of the Haidhausen Museum, which has been busying itself for an exhibition with the establishment.
Originally there was place for 280 patients; later this was expanded to 500 places.
At some point even this capacity was no longer enough – the reason why the district mental asylum in Haar was constructed in 1905.
The Isar Amper Clinic, East Munich, has been located there since 2006, one of the largest psychiatric units in Germany.
On the plot of the former Auer institution, young people now meet in the Munich Salesianum.
The order acquired the building complex in 1920 and converted it into a youth centre with training programmes.
To the west lies the football pitch of TSV München Ost, and to the east, residential houses from the 1980s.
In 2015, the "Casa Don Bosco" nursery was built – in the architectural style of the original mental asylum building, which had been destroyed in the Second World War in bomb attacks.
Marienplatz was recorded as the "main square" in around 1856, and Kaufingerstraße was called "Kaufinger Gasse".
The Second World War also brought a decisive change to the heart of Munich.
The bombs of the Allies tore many holes in the city centre in December 1944.
One big one remains up to this day – at the Marienhof.
The English Institute, small commercial premises and a crypt chapel from the Middle Ages once stood in the Marienhof, where these days, preparations for the second S-Bahn main line are underway, with first digging to follow on 5th April 2017.
You can use the slider control to compare the old Munich map with the aerial view from today – and to fill in the hole at the Marienhof.
Civil rights group issues travel warning for Missouri
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has put out an alert for people of color traveling to Missouri because of the state's discriminatory policies and racist attacks.
"The NAACP Travel Advisory for the state of Missouri, effective through August 28th, 2017, calls for African American travelers, visitors and Missourians to pay special attention and exercise extreme caution when traveling throughout the state given the series of questionable, race-based incidents occurring statewide recently, and noted therein," the group's statement reads.
A recent Missouri law making it harder for people to win discrimination lawsuits, as well as the state's law enforcement disproportionately targeting minorities prompted the group to issue the travel alert, the NAACP said.
"You have violations of civil rights that are happening to people.
They're being pulled over because of their skin color, they're being beaten up or killed," the president of the Missouri NAACP, Rod Chapel, told The Kansas City Star.
"We are hearing complaints at a rate we haven't heard before."
It is the first such warning that the organization has issued for a state in the US.
The group cited incidents such as racial slurs against black students at the University of Missouri and the death of Tory Sanders, 28, a black man from Tennessee.
Sanders died under questionable circumstances earlier this year after he ran out of gas while traveling through the state, and was taken into custody by Missouri police without being accused of a crime.
The advisory also points to a recent report by the Missouri Attorney General's Office showing that black drivers in the state were 75 percent more likely to be pulled over than whites.
"The advisory is for people to be aware, and warn their families and friends and co-workers of what could happen in Missouri," Chapel said.
"People need to be ready, whether it's bringing bail money with them, or letting relatives know they are traveling through the state."
Missouri recorded 100 hate crimes in 2015, according to the latest figures from the FBI's hate crime reporting program, ranking the state at 16th in the country in terms of the number of such violations.
The travel warning is also a response to a new Missouri law that would make it more difficult to sue a business for housing or employment discrimination.
Previously, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) had issued travel advisories for Texas and Arizona after the states passed immigration enforcement laws requiring local law enforcement to detain people on immigration violations which the ACLU said would increase racial profiling.
Travel warnings are usually issued by the State Department for other countries, but lately, advocacy groups have resorted to the measure in response to certain laws and trends inside the US.
Pasture fence project is fundamental
The Fischerbach pasture fence project is a successful project and will be continued next year.
Members of the Bundestag for the CDU Peter Weiß and Kordula Kovac got a first-hand view.
Representatives from the Fischerbach local CDU group met with mayor Thomas Schneider and the two representatives at Rechtgrabenhof farm, belonging to the Schwendemann family.
To start with, Markus Schwendemann gave insights into his business, in which he cultivates 55 hectares of pasture and 40 hectares of woodland, keeps 40 milk cows and just as many young stock, and accommodates five apartments of holiday makers.
Schwendemann says that, for him, there is no alternative to the "Black Forest milk" marketing channel he uses for the milk from his cows.
Only regional produce is served to the holiday-makers.
Since he is also BLHV chairman for Fischerbach, he described the pasture fence project as "fundamentally important".
I can't make a profit on that kind of steep-sloping ground.
Grassland areas make for a lot of work, a lot has to be done with the string trimmer.
"We have to grapple with the conditions and with the topography here," stressed Schwendemann.
In 2003, he took over his parents' business and he manages this without chemical crop protection and fertilisers, even if it's not an organic farm that he's running.
For Mayor Thomas Schneider, it was clear that "the community has recognised the importance of the pasture fence project and is happy to have the Leader funding".
The farmers need support to the tune of 3000 to 4000 euros per hectare.
One hopes that with that, afforestation of the area could then be drawn out for a long while.
"The biggest asset that we have are the people who work in agriculture and who give thought to how to bring their businesses forward," stressed the mayor.
The farmers are often the target of criticism thanks to the funding.
Using the pasture fence funding, a total of 25 plots from eleven participants were fenced off in 2013.
The areas kept open with these amount to 40 hectares, which may not be afforested until at least 2023.
Of the total costs, to the tune of 71,500 euros, half was funded via Leader, and a quarter was borne by the community of Fischerbach.
The farmers were thus left with 12,610 euros, which they had to invest in the 16.2-kilometre pasture fence.
"The great advantage is the longevity of the fences," explained Schwendemann.
Kordula Kovac stressed: "You're doing a really good job. Without farmers we'd not be able to function."
Peter Weiß is also standing firm: "First-class foodstuffs are produced here."
The Baden-Württemberg directive on countryside conservation (LPR) makes the government funding of pasture fences possible.
Its goal is to keep the Black Forest open.
A prerequisite is the existence of one of the funding scenarios as outlined by the LPR.
In addition, the fenced-off area is not allowed to be farmable with a tractor (gradient of over 35 per cent) and must therefore be threatened with afforestation.
For the 2018 Fischerbach pasture fence project, an application is currently underway from eight participants with 24 plots who would like to build just shy of 16 kilometres of fence.
The areas of land to be kept open equate to 35 hectares; the calculated costs amount to more than 112,000 euros.
Is nothing sacred?
Now Trump's White House is targeting the Statue of Liberty
The surest mark of regime change is when they start attacking the statues.
Americans appreciate this as well as anyone - hence the carefully stage-manged toppling of Saddam Hussein in Firdos square in Baghdad in 2003.
